---
title: View notification rules
description: >
  Update notification rules to update the notification message or change the schedule or conditions.

weight: 201
v2.0/tags: [notifications]
menu:
  v2_0:
    name: View notification rules
    parent: Manage notification rules
---

View notification rule details and statuses and notifications generated by notification rules in the InfluxDB user interface (UI).

- [View a list of all notification rules](#view-a-list-of-all-notification-rules)
- [View notification rule details](#view-notification-rule-details)
- [View statuses generated by a check](#view-statuses-generated-by-a-notification-rule)
- [View notifications triggered by a notification rule](#view-notifications-triggered-by-a-notification-rule)

To view notification rules, click **Monitoring & Alerting** in the InfluxDB UI sidebar.

{{< nav-icon "alerts" >}}

## View a list of all notification rules
The **Notification Rules** column on the Monitoring & Alerting landing page displays all existing checks.

## View notification rule details
In the **Notification Rules** column, click the name of the check you want to view.
The check builder appears.
Here you can view the check query and logic.

## View statuses generated by a notification rule
1.  In the **Notification Rules** column, hover over the check, click the **{{< icon "view" >}}**
    icon, then **View History**.
    The Statuses History page displays statuses generated by the selected check.

## View notifications triggered by a notification rule
1.  In the **Notification Rules** column, hover over the notification rule, click the **{{< icon "view" >}}**
    icon, then **View History**.
2.  In the top left corner, click **Notifications**.
    The Notifications History page displays notifications initiated by the selected notification rule.
