---
title: Migrate from InfluxDB 2.0 Beta to 2.0 TK
description: >
menu:
  influxdb_2_0_ref:
    name: Migrate to InfluxDB 2.0 beta to TK
weight: 9
---

Upgrade from InfluxDB 2.0 beta to TK.

This post describes the methods and tools that you can use to upgrade from an existing InfluxDB beta to the latest version of InfluxDB.
Depending on how you have things set up and how important the data stored in InfluxDB is, you can pick and choose parts of this guide that make sense to you.

**Why is this manual process required?**
In order to support a smoother upgrade process, and enable existing InfluxQL integrations to work with the latest release, we had to make breaking changes to the underlying storage engine for InfluxDB.
This means that in order to upgrade, you will need to upgrade all your resources and time series data to the latest version manually.

{{% note %}}
If you have any questions or run into any bugs while you are going through this guide, please [open an issue](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb/issues)
or join the [Community Slack workspace](https://influxcommunity.slack.com/) to get immediate help.
{{% /note %}}

- [1. Disable any existing integrations](#1-disable-any-existing-integrations)
- 2. Stop existing InfluxDB beta
- 3. (Optional) Rename existing InfluxDB binaries
- 4. Move existing data and start the latest InfluxDB
- 5. Start old InfluxDB beta instance
- 6. Configure configuration profiles for the InfluxDB CLI
- 7. Copy all resources from old instance to the new one
- 8. Setup the integrations to point to new instance
- 9. Load historical data into new instance

## 1. Disable any existing integrations

To begin, if you have any software interacting with your local InfluxDB beta instance, you will need to pause those integrations until the upgrade is complete.
This includes Telegraf, client libraries, and any custom applications you may have developed.
Basically, anything reading, writing, or monitoring your InfluxDB instance will need to be shut off and re-enabled after the upgrade.

## 2. Stop existing InfluxDB beta

Next, shut down your existing InfluxDB beta instance.
You can manually kill the individual process using **Control+c** or by finding the process ID.
If you’ve set `influxd` to run as a system process, follow the same steps you would use to disable any system process.

## 3. (Optional) Rename existing InfluxDB binaries

To make this a little easier to work with, you can rename your existing `influxd` and `influx` binaries so that you make sure you know which version you are using.
This is helpful if you’ve installed the binaries in your path.
We use the names `influxd_old` for this guide, but you can use whatever you like.

## 4. Move existing data and start the latest InfluxDB

In order to move data between the two instances, we are going to configure both the old and new instances of InfluxDB to run at the same time.
If you download the latest InfluxDB beta, and try to start it up with existing data, it will most likely refuse to start.
You will see an error message in the terminal this old data isn’t compatible.

```
Incompatible InfluxDB 2.0 version found.
Move all files outside of engine_path before influxd will start.
```

So let’s listen to the message and move our previous data to a safe location:

`mv ~/.influxdbv2 ~/.influxdbv2_old`

You can move it to wherever you’d like.
When we spin up the old instance again, we will tell it where your data files are located.

You can now spin up the latest InfluxDB version.
Since the data folder has been moved, everything will be empty.
You can check out localhost:8086 in your browser and see a setup page, but don’t set it up yet.

`influxd`

## 5. Start old InfluxDB beta instance
You can now spin up your old influxdb instance and point it to your old data directory:

`influxd_old --bolt-path ~/.influxdbv2_old/influxd.bolt --engine-path ~/.influxdbv2_old/engine`

If you used a different location, just update as appropriate.

You can double check that it’s working by going to your previous InfluxDB beta location (probably http://localhost:9999) and logging in.
Everything should still be there, so you are safe.

{{% note %}}
If you run into a problem about a missing migration, you can manually edit your bolt file to remove it.
You can use BoltBrowser to open and edit your old influxd.bolt file and manually remove the offending migration.
{{% /note %}}

{{% warn %}}
Make a backup of your old influxd.bolt file before doing this, as manually editing your bolt file could cause you to lose all your data.
{{% /warn %}}

Just highlight the record under the `migrationsv1` path and press **D**.

At this point, you should have the new instance and old instance of InfluxDB running on the same machine.

## 6. Configure configuration profiles for the InfluxDB CLI

Next, you’ll need to set up your InfluxDB CLI to connect to your old and new instances.
If you’ve used the CLI before, you can copy your existing config file to your new data directory:

`cp ~/.influxdbv2_old/configs ~/.influxdbv2/configs`

You might want to edit that file and rename your old config to be something to indicate that it’s the old version, like `influx_old`.

```
[influx_old]
  url = "http://localhost:9999"
  token = "<YOUR TOKEN>"
  org = "influxdata"
  active = true
```

If you’ve never used the CLI before, you can create a new configuration profile using the `influx config` command.

`influx config create \
    --config-name influx_old \
    --host-url http://localhost:9999 \
    --org influxdata --token <OLD_TOKEN>`

If you run `influx config ls` after this, you should see a profile for your old instance.

```
$ influx config ls
Active	Name		URL					Org
*	influx_old	http://localhost:8086			InfluxData
```

Next, let’s set up your new instance which will automatically create a configuration profile for you.
You can use the same username and password as your old instance, or something completely new, it’s up to you.

{{% warn %}}
Caution: For a bucket name, make sure you don’t use the same name as a bucket in your existing instance, otherwise, there will be a collision when you try to copy your resources over.
We will delete this dummy bucket after everything is moved over.
{{% /warn %}}

```
$ influx setup
Welcome to InfluxDB 2.0!
Please type your primary username: admin

Please type your password:

Please type your password again:

Please type your primary organization name: InfluxData

Please type your primary bucket name: dummy_bucket

Please type your retention period in hours.
Or press ENTER for infinite.:


You have entered:
  Username:          admin
  Organization:      InfluxData
  Bucket:            dummy_bucket
  Retention Period:  infinite
Confirm? (y/n): y

Config default has been stored in /Users/rsavage/.influxdbv2/configs.
User	Organization	Bucket
admin	InfluxData	dummy_bucket
```

So now you have two config profiles, one named `default` which points to your new instance, and one named `influx_old` that points to your old instance.

```
$ influx config ls
Active	Name		URL					Org
 	default		http://localhost:8086			InfluxData
*	influx_old	http://localhost:9999			InfluxData
```

Now you can send commands to each of them as needed using the `-c, --active-config` option on the CLI.

## 7. Copy all resources from old instance to the new one
Now we can copy all your existing influxdb resources, such as dashboards, tasks, and alerts to your new instance using a single command.

`influx export all -c influx_old | influx apply -c default`

Check out our documentation for the influx export and influx apply command if you’d like more details about what this is doing.


You should see a list of the resources being created in your new instance.
Assuming everything went ok, you can feel free to delete the bucket created during the setup.
```
$ influx export all -c influx_old | influx apply -c default
LABELS    +add | -remove | unchanged
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+---------+-------------+
| +/- |     METADATA NAME      | ID | RESOURCE NAME |  COLOR  | DESCRIPTION |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+---------+-------------+
| +   | tasty-northcutt-c9c001 |    | something          | #326BBA |             |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+---------+-------------+
|                                                      TOTAL  |      1      |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+---------+-------------+
​
BUCKETS    +add | -remove | unchanged
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
| +/- |     METADATA NAME      | ID | RESOURCE NAME | RETENTION PERIOD | DESCRIPTION |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
| +   | fasting-taussig-c9c007 |    | apps          | 0s               |             |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
| +   | great-davinci-c9c005   |    | new_telegraf  | 0s               |             |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
| +   | stubborn-hugle-c9c003  |    | telegraf      | 719h59m59s       |             |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
|                                                          TOTAL       |      3      |
+-----+------------------------+----+---------------+------------------+-------------+
```

Now you have all the resources from your old instance stored in your new instance.
Don’t believe me? Log into your new instance (probably http://localhost:8086) and take a look.

## 8. Setup the integrations to point to new instance

Now is a good time to set up any integrations you needed to disable before this process all started.
You have a better understanding of what those might be, but anything related to Telegraf, client libraries, custom applications, or 3rd party sinks will need to be setup again using new tokens and credentials.

So far, we haven’t moved any time series data over.
If you need to load your existing historical data into your instance, keep reading.

## 9. Load your historical data into new instance
There’s no direct migration of raw storage files, but it’s straightforward to use the command line to export and then re-import your data.
You can dump the raw flux result using the `influx query` command.
For the time range, you can just pick something before your bucket’s retention period, or something a really long time ago if you have an unlimited retention period.

`influx query -c influx_old ‘from(bucket: “my-bucket”) |> range(start: -3y)’ >  my-bucket.csv`

`influx write -c default --format csv -b my-bucket -f my-bucket.csv`

You can just repeat that process for each bucket.

## Wrapping up

So now you should have the latest version of InfluxDB running with all your resources, data, and integrations configured.
Double check and make sure everything is there and it is working as expected.
Once you have everything set up again, you can safely turn off your old instance and archive that data directory.
