---
title: Get started with InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated
list_title: Get started
description: >
  Start writing and querying time series data in InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated.
menu:
  influxdb_cloud_dedicated:
    name: Get started
weight: 3
influxdb/cloud-dedicated/tags: [get-started]
---

InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated is the platform purpose-built to collect, store, and
query time series data.
It is powered by the InfluxDB IOx storage engine which provides a number of
benefits including nearly unlimited series cardinality, improved query performance,
and interoperability with widely used data processing tools and platforms.

**Time series data** is a sequence of data points indexed in time order.
Data points typically consist of successive measurements made from the same
source and are used to track changes over time.
Examples of time series data include:

- Industrial sensor data
- Server performance metrics
- Heartbeats per minute
- Electrical activity in the brain
- Rainfall measurements
- Stock prices

This multi-part tutorial walks you through writing time series data to
your dedicated InfluxDB Cloud cluster, querying, and then visualizing that data.

## Key concepts before you get started

Before you get started using InfluxDB, it's important to understand how time series
data is organized and stored in InfluxDB and some key definitions that are used
throughout this documentation.

- [Data organization](#data-organization)
- [Schema on write](#schema-on-write)
- [Important definitions](#important-definitions)

### Data organization

The InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated data model organizes time series data into databases
and measurements. A database can contain multiple measurements.
Measurements contain multiple tags and fields.

- **Database**: Named location where time series data is stored.
  A database can contain multiple _measurements_.
  - **Measurement**: Logical grouping for time series data.
    All _points_ in a given measurement should have the same _tags_.
    A measurement contains multiple _tags_ and _fields_.
      - **Tags**: Key-value pairs that provide metadata for each point--for example,
        something to identify the source or context of the data like host,
        location, station, etc.
        Tag values may be null.
      - **Fields**: Key-value pairs with values that change over time--for example,
        temperature, pressure, stock price, etc.
        Field values may be null, but at least one field value is not null on any given row.
      - **Timestamp**: Timestamp associated with the data.
        When stored on disk and queried, all data is ordered by time.
        A timestamp is never null.

### Schema on write

When using InfluxDB, you define your schema as you write your data.
You don't need to create measurements (equivalent to a relational table) or
explicitly define the schema of the measurement.
Measurement schemas are defined by the schema of data as it is written to the measurement.

### Important definitions

The following definitions are important to understand when using InfluxDB:

- **Point**: Single data record identified by its _measurement, tag keys, tag values, field key, and timestamp_.
- **Series**: A group of points with the same _measurement, tag keys and values, and field key_.
- **Primary key**: Columns used to uniquely identify each row in a table.
  Rows are uniquely identified by their _timestamp and tag set_.
  A row's primary key _tag set_ does not include tags with null values.

##### Example InfluxDB query results

{{< influxdb/points-series-sql >}}

## Tools to use

Throughout this tutorial, there are multiple tools you can use to manage and
interact with your InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated cluster.
Examples are provided for each of the following:

<!-- TODO: Define tooling  -->

{{% note %}}
#### InfluxDB client libraries

[InfluxDB v1 and v2 client libraries](/influxdb/cloud/api-guide/client-libraries/)
are language-specific clients that interact with the InfluxDB HTTP v1 and v2 API.
Examples for client libraries are not provided in this tutorial, but these can
be used to perform actions outlined in this tutorial.
{{% /note %}}

## Authorization

**InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated requires authentication** using
[tokens](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/admin/tokens/).

There are two types of tokens:

- **Database token**: A token that grants read and write access to InfluxDB
  databases.
- **Management token**: A short-lived (1 hour) [Auth0 token](#) used to
  administer your InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated cluster.
  These are generated by the `influxctl` and do not require any direct management.
  Management tokens authorize a user to perform tasks related to:
  
  - Account management
  - Database management
  - Database token management
  - Pricing
  <!-- - Infrastructure management -->

{{< page-nav next="/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/get-started/setup/" >}}
