---
title: Create a Telegraf configuration
weight: 103
seotitle: Create a Telegraf configuration
description: >
  Use the InfluxDB UI to create Telegraf configurations for collecting metrics data.
menu:
  v2_0:
    name : Create a Telegraf configuration
    parent: Collect data

---

{{% note %}}
* Telegraf 1.9.2 or later must be used
* Telegraf 1.9.x is required to use the `https://` option.
* All Telegraf plugins are supported, but only a subset are configurable using the InfluxDB UI.
* If you have a Telegraf agent (v. 1.8 or later) running, you can enable the InfluxDB v2 output plugin to "dual land" data using both your existing InfluxDB 1.x and InfluxDB 2.0 instances.
{{% /note %}}

## Create a Telegraf configuration

Follow the steps below to use the InfluxDB UI to create a Telegraf configuration for collecting time series data.

1. Open a web browser to access the InfluxDB 2.0 user interface
   ([localhost:9999](http://localhost:9999)). The **Getting started with InfluxDB 2.0** screen appears.
2. To access the **Telegraf Configurations** page, use either of the following two paths:
    * Click **Organizations** in the navigation bar on the far left of the page.  
    {{< nav-icon "orgs" >}}
    * Click on an organization, and then click the **Telegraf** tab.
    * Click **Configure a Data Collector** and then select the **Telegraf** tab.
3. Click **Create Configuration**. The **Data Loading** page appears with the heading "Select Telegraf Plugins to add to your bucket."
4. Select your predefined **Bucket**, select one or more of the available options (**System**, **Docker**, **Kubernetes**, **NGINX**, or **Redis**), and then click **Continue**. A page with **Plugins to Configure** appears.
5. Review the list of **Plugins to Configure** for any configuration requirements.
    * Plugins listed with a green checks in front require no additional configuration steps.
    * To configure a plugin or access plugin documentation, click the plugin name.
    * Click **Continue** repeatedly to cycle through information on each of the plugins and then continue to the next step. Alternatively, you can click **Skip to Verify** to immediately proceed to the next step.
6. On the **Listen for Telegraf Data** page, complete the three steps to install Telegraf, configure your API Token, and start Telegraf on your local instance.

  1. Install the latest Telegraf version.
      * See the note above for specifics about supported versions.
      * The latest Telegraf version can be downloaded from the [InfluxData Downloads](https://portal.influxdata.com/downloads/) page.
  2. Configure your API token as an environment variable.
      * The API token grants Telegraf access to your InfluxDB 2.0 instance.
      * Copy the code from this page and run the code on your terminal window to set an environment variable with your token.
  3. Start the Telegraf service
      * Copy the code from this page and run it in a terminal window.  
      * When you start Telegraf with the `-config` flag provided, Telegraf will download the configuration file generated by InfluxDB 2.0 and start Telegraf using that configuration file.

7. Verify that you have correctly completed the steps by clicking **Listen for Data** (if you don't see this button, scroll down the internal frame or create a larger browser window). A **Connection Found!** message appears.
8. Click **Finish**. Your configuration name
   and the associated bucket name appears in the list of Telegraf connections.

You have configured Telegraf plugins that can collect data and add them to your InfluxDB buckets.

## Next steps

Now that you have data ready for exploration, you can:

* **Query data.** To get started querying the data stored in InfluxDB buckets using the InfluxDB user interface (UI) and the `influx` command line interface (CLI), see [Query data in InfluxDB](/v2.0/query-data).

* **Process data.** To learn about creating tasks for processing and analyzing data, see [Process data with InfluxDB tasks](/v2.0/process-data)

* **Visualize data.** To learn how to build dashboards for visualizing your data, see [Visualize data with the InfluxDB UI](/v2.0/visualize-data).
