---
title: Use a scraper to collect InfluxDB 2.0 metrics
seotitle: Use a scraper to collect InfluxDB 2.0 metrics
description: >
  Use a scraper defined in the InfluxDB 2.0 UI to collect system statistics into a bucket.
menu:
  v2_0:
    name: Use a scraper to collect InfluxDB 2.0 metrics
    parent: Collect data
    weight: 1
---

You can use the InfluxDB 2.0 user interface (UI) to quickly define a scraper that can capture hardware and OS metrics from third-party systems and translate the data into the popular Prometheus format, which is supported by InfluxDB.

Follow the steps below to configure an InfluxDB 2.0 scraper to collect metrics generated by InfluxDB 2.0 into a bucket.

## Configure an InfluxDB scraper to collect InfluxDB 2.0 metrics

Follow the steps here to capture Prometheus format data into an InfluxDB 2.0 bucket.

1. Open a web browser to your InfluxDB 2.0 instance
   [localhost:9999](http://localhost:9999). The login screen for the UI (user interface) appears.
2. Log in using your username and password. The **Getting started with   InfluxDB 2.0** screen appears.
3. In the navigation bar on the left, click **Organizations** and then click the name of your organization. The **Organization** page appears for the selected organization.
4. Click the **Scrapers** tab. A listing of any existing scrapers appears, listing the **URL** and the **BUCKET** name.
5. Click **Create Scraper**. The **Data Loading** page appears with **Add Scraper Target** options to define a scraper.
6. From the **Bucket** listing, select the bucket that you wan to be use to collect data.
7. Enter the **Target URL** to use for the Prometheus `/metrics` HTTP endpoint. The default URL value is `http://localhost:9100/metrics`.
8. Click **Finish**. The new scraper for Node Explorer appears as a new row in the listing of scrapers and displays the values for the **URL** and the **BUCKET**.

The new scraper for the Prometheus Node Exporter is now collecting data into the InfluxDB bucket you specified.

For information on creating InfluxDB 2.0 dashboards that use the Node Exporter data, see [Visualize data with InfluxDB](http://v2.dpcs.influxdata.com/v2.0/visualize-data/).
